scrap wood we've all got it most of us
want I can always turn this into
something I can even turn this into
something yeah I'm a wood hoarder I
admit it
but I've run out of storage room I'm
sitting on my last empty bucket and I'll
be damned if I'm going to give up my
stool it's time for me to build
something to hold all this extra scrap
wood or maybe I'll throw it out but
probably not stay tuned
let's build a lumber cart what baby kugo
Manhattan wood project that's great
here's the design that I want to use my
scrap cart all five bins are gonna be
about two foot deep these back two bins
are gonna be 1 foot by 2 foot wide and
these three are gonna be about 1 foot by
1 foot the site itself is going to be
made out of some spare siding that was
left over when we bought the house to
hold the siding together I'm gonna have
four inch and a half square pieces in
the corners they're not actually going
to hold the siding to the base they're
just gonna hold the actual pieces of
sidewall together the interior dividers
I'm going to make out scrap plywood
the real strength of this scrap card is
going to come from the base there's two
seats of quarter inch plywood and
sandwiched in between them is a lot of
half-inch tall by inch and a half wide
pieces of wood basically just scrap wood
and I cut half an inch thick this is
called a torsion box and it's designed
to withstand high amounts of torque high
weights without really bending or moving
the way it works is that you have so
much glue surface on both sides of this
core design that once it's glued into
place and the glue is dry this thing
will not move at all
you'll see in the video just how well it
works and then to make it mobile of
course casters
so I put together the core for the
torsion box it's going to be the base of
the scrap cart I ripped everything to
about half an inch thick on the top
Smith and now I'm just going to stapling
it in place the staples aren't designed
to keep it from moving in at all it's
just designed to hold it together so I
can pick this up throw up some glue on
it and put it on to the skin
let's see just how strong is torsion box
this that feels pretty during so
some of the edges of this wood are pre
rough gaps are up to an eighth of an
inch or so I really wished there is some
kind of thicker glue something little
thicker than a yellow glue that had the
strength of screws or nails I call it
something like fluid nail or liquid
screw or something thank you dear
now let's glue it up I'm gonna go inside
because this liquid nail is making me
high as a kite
finally I have all my wits sorted I'm
getting rid of bring up some old trash
cans and a little bit more of stuff
I've got a bunch that's sorted it over
here I also have four boxes and a whole
bucket of little scraps pieces like this
that I was eventually going to use but I
found a better way to use them I'm
getting double natives my little boys
preschool class so they can use them in
some of their hands-on activities if you
have any small pieces of scrap wood that
aren't really splintery I highly
recommend talking to a local preschool
maybe they're interested in taking some
off your hands the best part is I now
have four more seats in my shop this is
awesome I can throw a party that the
shop is damn near clean on this close I
just have some organizing to do some
bins to fill and I'm done thanks for
watching let me know what you think down
below in the comments on YouTube let me
know what if you like it if you don't
like it if you have any suggestions
don't forget to leave a thumbs up if you
like this video and if you haven't
already please consider subscribing
don't forget to watch and subscribe to
my upcycling channel link for it's right
up here thank you so much for watching
and I'll see you on the next project